title: 3 Weeks Post-Surgery, 1 Week Post-Activation
urlname: 3-weeks-post-surgery-1-week-post-activation
date: 2012-11-01T08:00

My cochlear implant surgery was 3 weeks ago. Hard to believe that much time has
already gone by! A few days ago, I said to William, &ldquo;I&#x02bc;m still
figuring out what the new normal is for us,&rdquo; and he just nodded.
We&#x02bc;re still taking things one day at a time, in hopes that the new
normal is less frustrating than the current normal and more full of sound than
the old normal.

I&#x02bc;m mostly recovered from surgery. The vertigo is almost entirely gone,
except I can get a little light-headed if I stand up too quickly or bend over
too far. So, I&#x02bc;m still careful about that. My right ear is still numb,
but my incision is healing nicely. My sense of taste is almost back, but some
things still taste a little bland. But no trouble with spicy foods! And I still
have a bruise under my right eye. It is the strangest thing &mdash; it
doesn&#x02bc;t hurt at all, but I still have a green spot on my cheek. You know
what, though? I&#x02bc;m so glad to be back on my feet. I&#x02bc;ve been
catching up on laundry this week, and I&#x02bc;m itching to scrub the
bathrooms. It&#x02bc;s such a nice feeling to be useful again. I don&#x02bc;t
mind the occasional sick day, but being in bed for almost two weeks is
ridiculous.

In terms of where I am after implant activation, that has been pretty well
documented here. I am having a hard time hearing. By the end of the day, I am
so tired of listening to Emily&#x02bc;s chatter, especially since she tends to
get shoutier towards bedtime. All sharp noises are pretty much the same volume,
so I am especially sensitive to slamming doors, things falling on the floor,
Emily singing, or Molly tapping blocks together. Because I&#x02bc;m not hearing
a lot of variation in volume and little articulation between words, my days are
strangely noisy and confusing.

That&#x02bc;s where I am today. And every tomorrow will be just a little bit
better than every today.
