title: Recovering nicely
urlname: recovering-nicely
date: 2013-08-16T12:23

William did a nice job of describing what happened on surgery day. I don&#x02bc;t have much to add beyond this. When I
started waking up in the post-op room, the nurse was standing about four inches from my face saying, &ldquo;How are you
feeling?&rdquo; It&#x02bc;s a good thing I can read lips. I was very groggy, as should be expected, and the room was
spinning. So, I closed my eyes and thought, &ldquo;Well, this is how it begins. I&#x02bc;m just going to have to ride
this out like I did before.&rdquo;

When I was finally awake enough to sit up, William helped me get dressed, and then the nurse helped me into the
wheelchair. We went outside to wait for William to bring the car up to the hospital entrance, and man, was it hot. Texas
in August, I tell ya&hellip; I dozed the whole ride home, because opening my eyes seemed to require a monumental amount
of energy. At home, we headed straight upstairs and I went back to sleep.

Here&#x02bc;s the surprising part. When I woke up, my dizziness was gone. No spinning room! William helped me sit up,
just in case, and still no dizziness. None at all. I could not believe it. I kept telling William, &ldquo;I&#x02bc;m not
dizzy!&rdquo; I hope he didn&#x02bc;t get tired of it. My friend brought us a meal on Wednesday night. It smelled
fantastic, but I was a little nervous about not being able to taste it, since my sense of taste went out for a while
with my first surgery. Again, I was surprised that I could taste everything just fine. That&#x02bc;s good because it was
delicious!

So, this recovery has gone very smoothly and consisted mostly of pain management and lots of laziness. None of the
problems that I anticipated have surfaced. My ear hurts like the dickens, but that&#x02bc;s the worst of it, and I am
most grateful not to be going through debilitating vertigo again. It&#x02bc;s a miracle that I attribute to two things.
First, I started taking yoga classes in April, and I imagine that doing hundreds of downward facing dogs helped my inner
balance mechanisms stay nimble. Second, the power of prayer in conjunction with [priesthood blessings][a] is real. To
those who have exercised their faith to pray for me and my family, I give my sincere thanks. It has made all the
difference.

[a]: https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/manual/gospel-topics/priesthood
