title: Why Now? Part One
urlname: why-now-part-one
date: 2012-10-20T11:17

At my first appointment with Dr. Slater, he looked over all the hearing tests,
scans, case notes, and everything in my file, and asked me, &ldquo;You&#x02bc;ve
obviously been a candidate for a cochlear implant for a long time. Why
now?&rdquo;

Here&#x02bc;s part of the answer, and I dare say, my main motivation.

![Rebecca, Emily, and Molly][a]

[a]: {static}/images/2012-05-13-rebecca-with-her-girls.jpg

These two girls are the reason why. I want my children to be able to play at the
park without being tethered to my side because I can&#x02bc;t hear them calling
me. I want to talk to my children in the car to learn how pre-school was that
day and who bonked heads with whom and what kind of snack they had. I want to
talk to my children without having them repeat themselves, especially after a
story has taken considerable effort to tell in the first place. I want to hear
the crash that warns of a playtime disaster. I want my children to know that I
am listening, always listening, and that their words are so important to me. I
want to hear my baby crying in her room upstairs. I want to be able to sing
happy songs with my girls. I want to be comfortable taking the phone call from
school telling me that my child is sick and needs to be picked up. I want to be
able to watch silly movies and cartoons and puppet shows. I want my children to
know that they are safe with me and that I can take care of them. I want to hear
all the funny little things that they say when they are playing together. I want
my children to enjoy all the happy things a childhood has to offer, without
being held back by their mother&#x02bc;s limitations.
