title: What I Saw at the Activation Appointment
urlname: what-i-saw-at-activation-appointment
date: 2012-10-24T18:35
author: William Jackson

I took today off from work so I could drive Rebecca to the audiology office and
be with her when they activated her cochlear implant. Rebecca&#x02bc;s mother
Ann is in town to watch the girls.

The morning was mostly normal. Rebecca wanted this day well-documented, so I
spent some time taking videos with the camera (with Ann&#x02bc;s help) of
everyone getting ready. We all had a nice breakfast together then Rebecca and I
drove to the office.

We waited only a minute or two before Amy, Rebecca&#x02bc;s audiologist,
welcomed us in and led us back to a room. She had some cables connected to a
notebook computer and an assistant, Ashton, who will be receiving her Ph.D. in
May.

Rebecca sat next to the computer and Amy and Ashton started putting various
implant pieces together. Part of the processor is held on to Rebecca&#x02bc;s
head with a magnet, and it took them a few tries to pick a magnet that was
strong enough to hold on but not so strong that it would give Rebecca a sore on
her scalp. They settled on a &ldquo;number 4&rdquo; magnet, whatever that means.

The part of the implant that is inside Rebecca&#x02bc;s cochlea contains a
series of electrodes that stimulate different parts of the auditory nerve.
Stimulation in different parts of the cochlea is what makes sounds different. An
electrical impulse in one part of the cochlea is interpreted by your brain as
one sound, and an impulse in another part of the cochlea is interpreted as a
different sound.

The first tests Amy did involved activating one electrode at a time and sending
electrical impulses, starting very weak and gradually building up until Rebecca
either heard or felt something. The processor would send a series of pulses to
the implant, and if Rebecca did not hear anything or could not determine how
many impulses were sent (between 1 and 5), Ashton (who was working the computer)
increased the power.

This process was repeated for each electrode (I think there are 22). Rebecca
described the sounds she was hearing as low bells ringing, with lots of
reverberation.

After Amy was satisfied with the power levels on each of the electrodes, she
turned them all on at once, at a very low volume. The entire process is quite
gradual, but if we had to point to a moment and say, &ldquo;This is when we
threw the switch,&rdquo; this is that moment.

With the implant on, Amy started to talk to Rebecca. At first, she said she only
head the bell sounds, one on each syllable that Amy spoke. But after a
surprisingly short time, Rebecca started to recognize Amy&#x02bc;s voice.
&ldquo;I can hear you!&rdquo; Rebecca said, holding back her tears. It was
moving and incredible touching.

Hopefully the above explanation will help you understand what is going on in
this video:

<video controls preload="metadata"><source src="{static}/images/2012-10-24-cochlear-implant-activation.mp4"></video>

The processor (the device you see behind Rebecca&#x02bc;s ear) contains the
microphones that pick up sound. It converts those sounds to electrical impulses
that are sent through the headpiece (the round thing that holds to the side of
Rebecca&#x02bc;s head with a magnet) to the implant inside Rebecca&#x02bc;s
head. All the external parts can be turned off, and when they are Rebecca
won&#x02bc;t hear anything in her right ear. So if she wants it to be quiet, she
can make it quiet.
