title: Why Now? Part Two
urlname: why-now-part-two
date: 2012-10-21T16:26

At my first appointment with Dr. Slater, he looked over all the hearing tests,
scans, case notes, and everything in my file, and asked me, &ldquo;You&#x02bc;ve
obviously been a candidate for a cochlear implant for a long time. Why
now?&rdquo; \*

In early 2011, it became clear to me that my trusty hearing aids were starting
to give out. I&#x02bc;d purchased them in 2005, right after I started working
full-time, and they&#x02bc;d served me pretty well. But 6 years is a tremendous
lifespan for hearing aids, and the technology has advanced and improved
considerably over that time. I was lucky to have gotten as much mileage out of
them as I did. I&#x02bc;d had little luck finding an audiologist in Austin that
I was comfortable with, so Mom looked around in New Braunfels and made me an
appointment with [Estes Audiology][a]. She might&#x02bc;ve picked them because
there was a coupon in the paper. But whatever the reason, it turned out to be an
inspired decision because the people I met there made all the difference.

[a]: https://hearlifeagain.alpacaaudiology.com/

My first appointment was with Phallon Doss, one of the audiologists working
there. I was a little nervous going into my appointment because I didn&#x02bc;t
know what to expect. I just wanted someone to fix my hearing aids, or in the
worst case scenario, help me find something better without taking my money and
running. (Because my hearing loss is so severe, fitting me for a hearing aid is
an ordeal, and I&#x02bc;d yet to find someone who could reliably work with me
over the course of weeks and months to customize my hearing aids to me.) Phallon
put me at ease immediately, listened as I explained what was going on with my
old hearing aids, and talked to me about why getting new hearing aids was
probably the best course of action. So, shortly thereafter I ordered some fancy
new hearing aids, powerful top of the line Phonak aids, complete with a remote
and Bluetooth receiver!

Because my new hearing aids were so much more powerful than my old ones, it took
several visits over the next weeks and months to fine-tune the settings to where
I was comfortable with them. And after I had gotten used to them, I was still
frustrated that my hearing seemed to be about the same. I still couldn&#x02bc;t
hear in the car or other noisy settings, and speech was only a little bit more
intelligible. I had reached the limit of what modern hearing aid technology
could do for my level of hearing loss. Perhaps this was just my lot in life.

At one of the visits with Phallon, I noticed that she had some brochures in her
office about cochlear implants. I was curious, so I asked if I could take one
home with me. She also shared her professional opinion that a cochlear implant
would be the next step for me, given the level of loss. She also talked about
why I would be a good candidate: I&#x02bc;ve worn hearing aids my whole life so
there are some key neural networks for hearing, and I&#x02bc;ve spent a lifetime
working to improve my speech. In essence, I&#x02bc;ve already overcome two of
the major obstacles that many cochlear implant patients face: learning to hear
for the first time and learning to speak, both of which things are increasingly
difficult to do after the critical language development periods of infancy and
early childhood.

It took me a few days to get up the nerve to look through all the materials
because I wasn&#x02bc;t sure what my reaction would be. The brochures were
geared towards pediatric patients and filled with story after story of children
and parents whose lives were changed for the better because the child got a
cochlear implant. It sounded miraculous and hopeful.

As I read through everything, I began to weep. I wept because when I was a
child, my parents did not have the luxury of cochlear implant technology, and so
they had to chart an alternate course for me to find my way in the world of
hearing. I wept at the thought of living in a time when such technology could
touch the lives of so many hearing impaired people. I wept because it sounded
like maybe there was another option for me, beyond hearing aids. Clearly, there
was something to this cochlear implant business after all, and I wanted to find
out more.

Two weeks later, I found out that I was pregnant with Molly, and everything was
shelved. Cochlear implants were in the back of my mind, but I had more pressing
matters to attend to.

In April 2012, my family was listening to [General Conference][b]. (As members
of [The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints][c], we participate in
General Conference twice a year. It&#x02bc;s a two-day meeting in Salt Lake
City, Utah, with talks from church leaders on a variety of topics relevant to
faith and family. The proceedings are broadcast over the Internet, for
convenience and a broader distribution of the messages.) Elder Russell M. Nelson
gave a talk called [&ldquo;Thanks Be to God&rdquo;][d]. His comments about the
majesty of the human body, the completeness of its functions, and the miracle of
the resurrection touched me deeply. I especially appreciated this remark:

[b]: https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference
[c]: https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/comeuntochrist
[d]: https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/general-conference/2012/04/thanks-be-to-god

> Be we reminded that a perfect body is not required to achieve one&#x02bc;s
> divine destiny. In fact, some of the sweetest spirits are housed in frail or
> imperfect bodies. Great spiritual strength is often developed by people with
> physical challenges, precisely because they are so challenged.

At the end of his talk, the thought came into my mind very clearly:
&ldquo;It&#x02bc;s time for a cochlear implant.&rdquo; I even wrote that down
because it was such a distinct impression.

From there, everything fell into place quickly. Through Soriya Estes, the
founder of Estes Audiology, I was introduced to the team at Austin Ear Clinic. I
met Amy Gensler for the first time at an event sponsored by Cochlear Americas,
and from there, the evaluation process started. Now that I look back at how
events have unfolded, I am amazed that it all came together so tidily. I was
able to get appointments sooner rather than later, paperwork was processed
quickly, and help always came when I needed it. The time was finally right.

\* So, the answer I gave in the doctor&#x02bc;s office was, &ldquo;Because no
one has ever made a compelling case for one before.&rdquo; And he was satisfied
with that.
