title: Questions from Readers
urlname: questions-from-readers
date: 2012-11-08T09:30

I love reading comments on my blog, but I am never sure what the best way to answer questions is. If you leave me a
question, are you going to check the blog every day until I answer it in the comments? (If that&#x02bc;s you, I&#x02bc;m
sorry for not being responsive.) Do you want me to email you the answer and risk everyone else who has the same question
not knowing the answer? So, I thought it would be fun to answer some questions that have popped up recently right here
in the blog! We&#x02bc;ll see how fun I thought it was after I&#x02bc;m finished writing this post.

From Liz H.: **are there other cochlear implant patient blogs out there?**

Amy sent me the link to [this one][a], which partly inspired me to start my own. This one hasn&#x02bc;t gone much beyond
the implant activation, and I thought it would be useful to record what life is like post-implant. I haven&#x02bc;t
looked for others, but there are lot of Activation Day videos on YouTube, mostly for little kids.

[a]: https://allisonscochlearimplant.blogspot.com/

From my mom who is very funny: **Maybe all those years dots and dashs \[meaning Morse code beeps] from Dad&#x02bc;s ham
radio kept those aural lines open. Is hamming in your future?**

Nope. If my dad&#x02bc;s experience is any indication, ham radio has got to be maybe the most exasperating hobby of all
time.

From Farrah (who just had a baby and I&#x02bc;m still waiting to find out what the baby&#x02bc;s name is. Maybe she will
tell me in a comment!): **Do you turn \[the implant processor&#x02bc;s volume] up incrementally or do you go back and
they do it for you? How often will the volume get cranked up?**

At my appointments with Amy and Ashton, they fiddle around with the programming of my processor to make the sound
quality and volume level more suitable. My next appointment is in a week, and after that, they will probably start to
get further apart as I become more proficient at hearing. I hope. The processor came with a remote control that looks a
lot like an old school iPod. The remote allows me to adjust the volume and sensitivity (meaning how far a way a sound is
before I can hear it) depending on the listening situation. It is programmable, and right now, the programs are an
&ldquo;Everyday&rdquo; program that picks up all sounds and a &ldquo;Noise&rdquo; program that picks out speech. I
don&#x02bc;t play with the remote too much, but perhaps I should. Good reminder.

Another one from Liz H.: **so how does your hearing today compare to the hearing you had in your right ear when you had
a hearing aid?**

This is an old question from Activation Day, but the answer is still interesting two weeks later. My hearing is not
where it was with a hearing aid. Right now, the implant is mostly acting as a &ldquo;Hey, there&#x02bc;s a noise in the
environment. See if you can tell what it is.&rdquo; It is picking up sounds that I couldn&#x02bc;t hear before, like the
fan in the baby&#x02bc;s room and the beeping on my crockpot, but I&#x02bc;m still having a hard time telling where the
sound is coming from. So, I spend a lot of time listening and wondering and looking around to figure out what something
is.

From my sister: **Can I help you practice your z sounds?**

Yes.

There, I think I&#x02bc;m caught up on answering questions. Keep them coming! (And those of you who sent questions for
Amy, thank you! I&#x02bc;ll send those her way and hopefully, we&#x02bc;ll get an interesting guest post from her soon.)
