title: &ldquo;Eyes. Ear. Mouth. Nose.&rdquo; A Day Later
urlname: eyes-ear-mouth-nose-day-later
date: 2012-10-25T23:03

The response to the [Activation Day post][a] has been tremendous. I&#x02bc;m
astonished and touched by the outpouring of encouragement from my blog readers.
It warms my heart to know that so many people are reading this story and
cheering for me on the way. For that, I thank you.

[a]: {filename}/2012-10-24-what-i-saw-at-activation-appointment.md

That&#x02bc;s why it makes a little hard for me to rain on everyone&#x02bc;s
parade here. But for the sake of keeping this real and after having some time to
reflect on how to articulate this, I&#x02bc;d like to explain what was happening
in the magic moment at the end of the video.

Amy was talking, and I was trying to make some kind of sense of what I was
hearing. I had a memory of Amy&#x02bc;s voice. And all I could hear at the
beginning of the appointment was bells, bells, bells. Nothing intelligible was
coming through. But Amy kept talking in her distinctive voice, and at some
point, the sounds that I was hearing with my implant started to resemble what I
remembered of Amy&#x02bc;s voice. It was very faint and not intelligible, but
underneath all the ringing and bells was a hint of Amy&#x02bc;s voice. That was
the &ldquo;A ha!&rdquo; moment in the video. In essence, I was able to reconcile
what I remembered (thank you, neural networks!) with what I was then hearing.
The video makes it look far more comprehensive than it was. While I don&#x02bc;t
discount the miracle of being able to perceive anything at all, I also
don&#x02bc;t want to give the impression that the implant somehow flipped the
&ldquo;Hearing: On&rdquo; switch in my brain, and now I am ready to go to the
opera.

The challenge from here on out will be to replicate the first day&#x02bc;s
experience times every sound that I was able to hear with my hearing aids, and
then add on all the sounds that I wasn&#x02bc;t able to hear before.
That&#x02bc;s a pretty big registry of sounds.

So, tonight, I started small, with my husband William&#x02bc;s voice. We did our
homework as Amy explained: find a quiet place to talk one on one and start going
through words. Armed with [*Bright Baby Touch and Feel*][b] (the Numbers and
Colors editions) and [*Happy Baby Words*][c], William and I headed to the
living room to get away from the dull roar that I&#x02bc;m hearing from my
refrigerator. He started to count, with the Numbers book as a visual cue for me.
And then &ldquo;I&#x02bc;m going to cover my mouth, and you tell me which number
I&#x02bc;m saying.&rdquo; I closed my eyes to make sure that no one would accuse
me of cheating and tried to listen. I heard nothing but bells. One guess that I
hazarded was &ldquo;Three,&rdquo; and William had actually said,
&ldquo;Two.&rdquo; Hmpf. Then he switched to the colors book. &ldquo;Yellow.
Red. Green. Orange. Purple. Brown. Blue. Pink. Black. White.&rdquo;

[b]: https://us.macmillan.com/books/9781429957397/bright-baby-numbers
[c]: https://www.amazon.com/dp/0312490097

At this point, I began to cry out of frustration. Nothing was intelligible.
Still bells all around. At best, I could tell that there was something in the
room generating a sound, but the nature of the sound, its direction, and its
source were a mystery (except that I knew it was William trying to read colors
to me.) No &ldquo;A ha!&rdquo; moment. He tried again, unruffled by my tears.
(He used to do IT desktop support. He knows how to handle emotional people.)
Still nothing. We changed our approach. I closed my eyes, and he read each word
five times while I listened. The word that was most intelligible was
&ldquo;purple.&rdquo;

We switched to _Happy Baby Words_. Each page has four words on it, so I
suggested that we just work on the first three pages and repeat. &ldquo;Eyes.
Ear. Mouth. Nose.&rdquo; Turn the page. &ldquo;Hand. Back. Legs. Toes.&rdquo;
Turn the page. &ldquo;T-shirt. Shoes. Pants. Dress.&rdquo; Back to the
beginning. I had William read the first page several times. &ldquo;Eyes. Ear.
Mouth. Nose. Eyes. Ear. Mouth. Nose.&rdquo; He read the words over and over as I
listened. He turned the page and did the same with the second set of words and
again with the third set of words. I had him go back to &ldquo;Eyes. Ear. Mouth.
Nose.&rdquo; over and over. He kept reading, always patiently. At some point
during that tedious sequence, I heard something familiar underneath all the
bells and tones. William&#x02bc;s voice was faintly coming through. &ldquo;Eyes.
Ear. Mouth. Nose.&rdquo;

So, this is where the road to hearing begins. It&#x02bc;s not an especially
auspicious beginning, and I expect more tears over the coming days and weeks,
but at some point, I must be able to look back and realize that somehow,
imperceptibly but certainly, I&#x02bc;m making progress. &ldquo;Eyes. Ear.
Mouth. Nose.&rdquo;
