title: The Day Before
urlname: the-day-before
date: 2012-10-15T08:00

On Tuesday, William went to work, and I stayed home with the girls. Emily
sounded terrible, with lots of sneezing and a scratchy voice. I decided to keep
her home from preschool, even though I suspected that she was suffering from
allergies. Molly also refused to take her naps, so it could&#x02bc;ve been a
very long, frustrating day.

But I quickly realized that this was a tender mercy from the Lord, to have one
more day with my girls where everything was just as it should be. I could be a
mom and cuddle them and hold them and feed them and play with them and clean up
after them. Since no one knew how my recovery from the implant surgery would go,
I realized that it might be a while before I could go back to being a mom and do
all the things that moms do. Emily and I headed to the kitchen and made rolls
and pumpkin bread. Molly scooted around on the floor, happily for the most part.
It was a totally normal day in many regards. As much as I complain about the
monotony and routine of normal days, this was a normal day that I was most
thankful to have.

Mom showed up in the middle of the afternoon, and Emily just about jumped into
her arms. She was so excited to have Grandma stay with us for a few days. She
was especially proud to tell Grandma that she&#x02bc;d helped to clean the
upstairs bathroom so that she and Grandma could share it. (Her favorite part was
cleaning the toilet!) The weather was beautiful, so we girls went outside to
play in the backyard. Molly was on the picnic blanket with me, and Mom and Emily
played in the playscape. I made a giant pot of mediocre soup for dinner (I had
not intended for it to be mediocre, but sometimes that&#x02bc;s how it goes in
the kitchen.) We got the girls off to bed, and as I kissed them good night, I
thought, &ldquo;Everything will be different tomorrow. Remember this
moment.&rdquo;

And as luck would have it, at 8:00 that evening, I had a phone interview for a
part-time editing job. (Because who wouldn&#x02bc;t try to find a job in the
midst of life-changing surgery?) William was my transcriptionist, and we were on
the phone for almost an hour. One of the things that I hope comes from the
implant is that talking on the phone will not be so difficult.

I wrote down in my journal, &ldquo;Today was such a normal day. How can tomorrow
be the day that changes my life?&rdquo; It was a surreal feeling, one that I had
the day before I was married and on the day before my babies were born. It was
the same feeling I had driving home from my mother-in-law&#x02bc;s funeral.
There are all of these people out there in the world having a totally normal
day, and there are some people whose lives are about to change forever. Usually,
I&#x02bc;m the person having a normal day, while someone else&#x02bc;s life has
changed in an instant. But on Wednesday, I would be the one watching everyone
around me having a normal day and thinking, &ldquo;Did anyone else notice that
the world just changed a whole lot?&rdquo; But life still goes on, one way or
another.
