title: Cochlear Implant Info
urlname: cochlear-implant-info
date: 2012-10-15T17:08

Here&#x02bc;s a handy little [write up][a] about cochlear implants. I figure
that it&#x02bc;s trustworthy because this is where my friend Janae went to
medical school.

[a]: https://web.archive.org/web/20130627234601/http://www.umm.edu/programs/hearing/services/cochlear-implant

If you read the whole article, you&#x02bc;ll find a few things that are
different from my experience. My surgeon used a minimally invasive technique,
which left only a 1.5 inch scar behind my right ear and did not require any
shaving of the skull bones. Ouch, right? Also, my implant will be activated two
weeks after surgery (not a month), so I&#x02bc;ll be hitting the ground running.
Because I&#x02bc;m an adult patient, I did not have to meet with a social worker
or a psychologist, which I would imagine is more routine with school-age
children who need more support with the transition.

A couple of things about me that I should mention here. I was born deaf and
fitted with hearing aids just after I turned 1. Through a series of happy
circumstances, I was raised in an oral environment, meaning no American Sign
Language exposure. (Maybe I can get my parents to do a guest post about that
because that is really their story, not mine.) So, the fact that I quickly
tapped into what little hearing I had left and because I was raised oral, the
transition to a cochlear implant should be smoother for me, than it would be for
someone who has never worn hearing aids and who has never learned how to speak.
At least, that&#x02bc;s the theory. We&#x02bc;ll find out next week if
that&#x02bc;s really true.
