title: Alone with My Girls
urlname: alone-with-my-girls
date: 2012-10-26T21:39

This afternoon, my mom went home. She&#x02bc;s been with us since Monday and has
been a life-saver in helping with the girls, driving me around while I&#x02bc;m
shaking off the last bit of vertigo, buying groceries (and the cutest red
ballerina flats for me), and being a generally stabilizing and encouraging force
amidst some serious upheaval to our daily routine. She was there the first time
I learned how to hear, and this week she reminded me several times, &ldquo;You
did this once before. You can do it again.&rdquo; So I miss her, and the girls
miss her.

I had about three hours between the time she left and the time William got home
from work. I think it&#x02bc;s the first time that I&#x02bc;ve been alone with
both girls in over two weeks, and certainly the first time that I&#x02bc;ve been
alone with them with my hearing being bad in my left ear and terrible in my
right. Molly&#x02bc;s vocabulary is limited to babyspeak and cooing, so
she&#x02bc;s pretty easy to understand. If she wants something, she yells
unintelligibly. If she&#x02bc;s happy, she goes around babbling, &ldquo;Day day
day day day.&rdquo; Sometimes she growls. It is all really cute.

My three-year old Emily is a different story. She started speaking in sentences
at 18 months and pretty much has not stopped talking since. She always has
something to say. Always. She&#x02bc;s also currently in the throes of the
&ldquo;Why?&rdquo; stage. It&#x02bc;s endearing because she&#x02bc;s so curious
about everything, but it also keeps me on my toes for good answers to her
questions. (I&#x02bc;m trying really hard not to take the lazy route and just
respond with &ldquo;Because.&rdquo; to everything.)

The point here is that my girls make a lot of noise, and it never stops. So, we
were home alone this afternoon, and I was trying my hardest to keep up with what
Emily was saying, all the while listening to Molly&#x02bc;s happy babbling in
the background. It was utterly exhausting. Emily kept moving around and looking
away from me, as three-year olds will do, so lip-reading didn&#x02bc;t help. I
am really nervous about how I am going to manage the girls all day, every day
next week and the week after that up until the point when my implant is actually
producing intelligible sounds.

After they went to bed, William and I pulled out _Bright Baby Touch and Feel_
(Colors) and did a little more homework. At some point this afternoon, I had
realized that I could barely hear out of my implanted ear, not even bells or
ringing, so I wanted to see if doing homework would help me figure out what was
going on. The only sound that was coming through was some unidentified ambient
noise. I had my implant remote and decided to play around with the volume to see
if I could help. Lots of button pushing later, William&#x02bc;s voice started to
be slightly intelligible, which is an improvement over yesterday.

However, regardless of where the volume level is set, the implant continues to
produce a constant buzzing sound that masks any other potentially intelligible
sound. I don&#x02bc;t know if this is something that my brain will learn to
filter out over time or whether my implant&#x02bc;s programming is in need of
some serious fine-tuning. My next appointment with Amy is on Friday, November 2,
so I have a week to figure this out. But right now, it&#x02bc;s driving me nuts!
