title: Post-Op Appointment
urlname: post-op-appointment
date: 2012-10-18T22:29

This afternoon at 2, William and I went to my post-op check-up at Austin Ear
Clinic. My appointment was with Andrew, the physician&#x02bc;s assistant, so I
didn&#x02bc;t get a chance to give Dr. Slater a hard time about how lousy
I&#x02bc;ve been feeling. The nurse took us back to an exam room, and I saw
Andrew working on some paperwork as we walked back. He must have seen us walk by
because he stuck his head in and said something to William about my being dizzy
and then told the nurse to move us to an exam room with a table.

While we were waiting in that exam room, William told me what Andrew said.
&ldquo;I don&#x02bc;t mean to pry, but are you holding her hand because
she&#x02bc;s dizzy?&rdquo; Interesting question. I guess that William and I
don&#x02bc;t give off the newlywed vibe anymore. I think it would&#x02bc;ve been
funny if William had gone out of character and said, &rdquo;No, good sir, I hold
her hand because she is the love of my life!&rdquo; Ha.

So, we waited in the exam room with the table. The nurse had brought up my file
on the computer and then left it open, so William went to see what was there.
She&#x02bc;d pulled up Dr. Slater&#x02bc;s write-up about my surgery, and
William said, &ldquo;I think I&#x02bc;d like to read this report.&rdquo; (So,
when we left, I got a copy of that report. It is a marvel of medical lingo, but
I think it says that my surgery went well.) We waited and waited. William even
played with their computer a little, long enough to figure out that the mouse
battery was running low.

Finally, Andrew came in and started checking me out. He looked into both of my
ears. My left ear has a hearing aid in it, so I light-heartedly told him that he
wouldn&#x02bc;t be able to see much. He didn&#x02bc;t really think that was
funny. (By the way, this happens so often. When I go to a doctor&#x02bc;s office
for ear trouble, they *never* tell me to take my hearing aids out. They just
start looking and then seem surprised to see hearing aids in the way. It never
fails. Sounds to me like someone didn&#x02bc;t read my chart before coming in.)
So, he looked at my ears and then at my incision. No problems there.

Then he started checking the dizziness. He asked a few questions about what kind
of dizziness I&#x02bc;m having, spinning versus rocking motion. He had me lie
down on the table while he cradled my head in his hands. He started turning my
head slowly in several directions, which was supposed to help with the
dizziness. He was talking to William about what he was doing, but I cannot read
lips upside down and couldn&#x02bc;t tell what he was saying. He worked with me
for a few more minutes and then finally sat me up. Boy, my neck was getting
tired.

Turns out I have [benign paroxysmal positional vertigo][a]. Here&#x02bc;s what I
understood from his explanation. There are some crystals that normally are
suspended in fluid inside the cochlea. During the surgery, some of the fluid and
crystals flowed into other bones of my inner ear, which causes the vertigo. The
head rotations that he was doing were supposed to help shift the crystals and
fluid back where they belong. So, crystals in my head. Cool, huh? (Actually, I
was having a hard time following him and started thinking about _The Dark
Crystal_ and what a terrible movie that was.) He gave us a really long handout
with a much more technical explanation about the vertigo and possible treatments
and then told me that I should not bend over or tip my head backwards too far
for a few more weeks. When sleeping, I should sleep with two pillows to keep my
head propped up. He actually said that sleeping in a recliner is ideal.
(Obviously, he&#x02bc;s never slept in a recliner.) In theory, all this is
doable, but in reality, I have two small children and a house to keep up with.
We&#x02bc;ll see how well that goes.

[a]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Benign_paroxysmal_positional_vertigo

I&#x02bc;m supposed to go back in a week for another vertigo check and possibly
some more head rotations. I can hardly wait.

And while we were driving to and from the appointment, the first time
I&#x02bc;ve been in a car since my surgery, I noticed that I get dizzy and
slightly nauseated. So, it looks like I won&#x02bc;t be getting behind the wheel
for a while.
