title: Update: I&#x02bc;m feeling better!
urlname: update-im-feeling-better
date: 2012-10-23T20:30

It&#x02bc;s become clear that some of my readers are under the impression that I
am still in bed with a blanket over my eyes, trying to keep any bit of food
down. Well, I&#x02bc;m pleased to report that two weeks after surgery, I am
feeling much better.

Whatever magic the PA worked during [my post-op check-up][a] worked, because my
dizziness started to go away the next day. I stayed out of bed all day on Friday
and Saturday, and the only pain medication I took was a couple of Tylenol at
night. I was feeling well enough to go to stake conference\* on Saturday night
and then out to dinner afterwards. On Sunday, I made a fancy dinner with
William. And on Monday, I did a bunch of laundry and housework, so in some
aspects, life is back to normal. My sense of taste is slowly coming back, and my
mouth isn&#x02bc;t drooping anymore. (If my sense of taste had been permanently
damaged, that would&#x02bc;ve been the most tragic thing ever to happen to me,
even more than being born deaf. I cannot even imagine never being able to taste
French fries dipped in honey mustard again.)

[a]: {filename}/2012-10-18-post-op-appointment.md

I still have a bruise under my right eye that mostly just looks like I got
carried away with the green eyeshadow. Riding in the car is still giving me a
little bit of difficulty, so I don&#x02bc;t trust myself to get behind the wheel
just yet. But each day is an improvement, so I expect to be back behind the
wheel sooner rather than later. Brighter days are indeed ahead!

I&#x02bc;ve been without hearing in my right ear for two weeks now. My left ear
has been doing a lot of heavy lifting, if you will. It has been frustrating not
to hear as well as I&#x02bc;m accustomed, but something is better than nothing.
I&#x02bc;m also mindful that two weeks of not being able to hear well is a good
reminder for me that I have been so fortunate, given the level of loss that I
have. So many children never have the opportunities that I had, and life is
really, really hard for them. I&#x02bc;ve largely been spared many of those
challenges and have been able to make the most of what little hearing I have.
For that I am most thankful.

\* On Saturday night&#x02bc;s session of stake conference, without any warning,
I was picked out of an audience of hundreds to share a testimony. First of all,
I was glad that I&#x02bc;d put some makeup on. Second of all, I was glad that I
had some things of a spiritual nature recorded in my blog that I could cobble
together into a semi-coherent message. So, I talked about the thing that has
consumed my thoughts of late, my cochlear implant. And by the time I finished, I
didn&#x02bc;t see many dry eyes in the audience. Mission accomplished.
