title: Surgery, Part 1
urlname: surgery-part-1
date: 2012-10-16T08:00

Wednesday, October 10, 2012. 10-10-12. I slept pretty well on Tuesday night, all
things considered. We were up at the usual time. William was ready first, but
that&#x02bc;s because I was taking my sweet time washing my hair. I wanted it to
count, since I wouldn&#x02bc;t be able to wash my hair for several days. I put
on the comfiest clothes I could find and regretted just a little bit that I
couldn&#x02bc;t even put on a teeny bit of mascara. Surgery is hard enough
without looking like a zombie. There are good reasons for asking patients not to
wear makeup, but this girl likes to look nice. Also, no food or drink after
midnight on Tuesday. So, I was kind of hungry.

We needed to be at the Hospital at Westlake Medical Center by 8. We left just
after 7. I had to wake Mom up to say goodbye. The girls were still sleeping, and
that was probably for the best. There might have been a lot of crying if
I&#x02bc;d had to see them before we left. The traffic was bad because of rush
hour, compounded by fog and drizzle. To pass the time, William listened to NPR,
and I read _The Woman in White_. It could be the last time for a while that
I&#x02bc;d be able to read in the car without getting motion sick.

We were both surprised when we pulled up to Westlake Medical Center. It appeared
to be a large compound of medical offices, with no obvious hospital building.
After driving around for a few minutes, we noticed that one of the offices had
an &ldquo;Admissions&rdquo; sign over the entrance. But it didn&#x02bc;t look
much like a hospital. William snagged a parking spot right in front and we
headed in to check it out.

We found it! It was definitely the smallest hospital that I&#x02bc;ve ever been
in, but also one of the more posh. Thank you, rich Westlake neighbors, for
demanding nothing but the best. I should mention that this hospital is one of
two in the city that will do cochlear implant surgery, so hopefully that
explains why we drove by at least four other hospitals on the way there. Check
in was no big deal. $100 co-pay and a signature on a release form. They asked if
I had a DNR and/or living will; I don&#x02bc;t. But I didn&#x02bc;t think that
either of those documents would be needed for this surgery. I'&#x02bc;l put it
on my list of things to get sorted out soon.

Then we went to the lobby to wait. There were several other people there waiting
for their loved ones to come out of surgery. We saw Dr. Slater, my surgeon, come
out to talk to a woman who was waiting. He must have been reporting on how the
surgery went. I&#x02bc;d hoped that William would eavesdrop on their
conversation, but he said that it wasn&#x02bc;t very polite. Psssh. When my
implant is connected, I plan to do a lot more eavesdropping! Maybe I&#x02bc;ll
find out that conversations are not as interesting as I imagine them to be.

Soon, we were escorted back to the pre-op room where I changed into a purple
gown, purple socks, and hospital-issue underwear. Ooh la la. We were joking
about the socks being a $65,000 pair of socks, a la &ldquo;My wife got a
cochlear implant, and all I got was this lousy pair of socks.&rdquo; We were in
pre-op for at least an hour, with various staff coming to check on us. A nurse
got me hooked up to an IV, which hurt a lot more than I remember it hurting with
my babies. Turns out that she&#x02bc;d gotten a bad batch of needles from the
manufacturers, and everyone had been complaining about their IV&#x02bc;s. Glad
to know I&#x02bc;m not a pansy. The anesthesiologist came by to put a Scop patch
behind my left ear and talk about the medications I would be receiving during
surgery. Nice guy. I wish he&#x02bc;d been on call when Emily was born. His name
was Larry, so we talked about how the name &ldquo;Larry&rdquo; seems to have
this one decade around the 1940&#x02bc;s and 1950&#x02bc;s where it was
extremely popular and then no one ever named their son Larry again. William told
a lot of stories about Boy Scouts. I&#x02bc;m sure we were driving everyone
around us nuts with our chatting and laughing, but too bad!

![Rebecca][a]

[a]: {static}/images/2012-10-10-right-ear.jpg

Just their way of making absolutely certain that my right ear was being
implanted.

Finally, the nurse came to take me back to the OR. He put a relaxer into my IV.
I kissed William and said, &ldquo;I love you.&rdquo; The last thing I remember
is saying, &ldquo;Wow, I can feel that relaxer kicking in.&rdquo;

![Rebecca][b]

[b]: {static}/images/2012-10-10-rebecca-happy.jpg

I think this picture is so funny because I look way too happy. This was even
before they got the relaxer drugs going!
