title: Fruits
urlname: fruits
date: 2012-10-30T21:17

For listening practice tonight, William and I picked a page from a Baby
Einstein book with pictures of fruits: apple, watermelon, banana, grapes,
orange, and blueberries. We fancied it up a bit by having me listen to try to
guess which word he was saying.

&ldquo;Grapes&rdquo; was the clearest word, and I guessed that one correctly
most of the time.

&ldquo;Watermelon&rdquo; and &ldquo;banana&rdquo; were hard to distinguish, but
I could sometimes tell that there were three syllables in the word.

&ldquo;Orange&rdquo; was tricky. Too tricky. I often mistook
&ldquo;orange&rdquo; for &ldquo;banana&rdquo; inexplicably.

&ldquo;Apple&rdquo; never sounded right. Every time William said,
&ldquo;Apple,&rdquo; I heard, &ldquo;Lemon.&rdquo; Every single time.
&ldquo;Lemon&rdquo; wasn&#x02bc;t even an option! After enough of that, I
explained to William what was going on, and he said, &ldquo;That&#x02bc;s
crazy.&rdquo; And I said, &ldquo;Because they sound so different to you? And
they sound exactly the same to me.&rdquo; Then I started to cry, and practice
was over.

It is so obvious that I have overcompensated for my hearing loss by developing
alternate listening strategies: lip-reading, trying to guess the context of a
conversation based on the words that I can pick out, observing body language. I
think that these strategies will come in handy, and I don&#x02bc;t plan to
jettison lip-reading any time soon, because that tends to impress people a lot.
But learning how to listen, without any external cues, is almost impossible.
