title: A Lesson from Molly
urlname: a-lesson-from-molly
date: 2012-11-04T16:24

Last night&#x02bc;s practice ended with me throwing my word cards on the floor in frustration. We practiced with word
cards I&#x02bc;d picked up at my most recent audiologist appointment. &ldquo;Sky,&rdquo; &ldquo;flower,&rdquo; and
&ldquo;dog&rdquo; were indistinguishable to me, and I couldn&#x02bc;t hear a difference between &ldquo;cat&rdquo; and
&ldquo;grass.&rdquo; In our first round, the only word that I was able to pick out on first try was
&ldquo;butterfly,&rdquo; and that was because it happened to be the only three-syllable word in the set. The
card-throwing resulted from one too many attempts to hear &ldquo;bird&rdquo; unsuccessfully.

Many people have generously offered to help me with my listening practices, and Amy said it would be a good idea to have
practice listening to different voices. But right now, I can&#x02bc;t handle the thought of my family and friends seeing
me fail so badly. It&#x02bc;s more vulnerability than I&#x02bc;m willing to expose right now. Even writing about it is
difficult. If it hasn&#x02bc;t been made obvious yet, I can be a pretty proud person.

-----

Our ten-month-old daughter Molly took her first steps a week ago. She stood up by herself, as she&#x02bc;s been doing
for at least a month now, and took two little steps as she lost her balance and fell into my arms. Since then, William
has coaxed a few more steps out of her on a couple of days this week, and the most I&#x02bc;ve seen is six at once. Some
days she doesn&#x02bc;t feel like walking by herself, so she doesn&#x02bc;t. She opts to crawl or when she can, to walk
around with her fingers tightly wrapped around a grown-up&#x02bc;s. But when she does take a few independent steps, she
is so pleased with herself.

Molly is satisfied with her five clumsy steps forward before she collapses into someone&#x02bc;s arms. She&#x02bc;s more
than happy to have help with her wobbly, stiff-legged practicing. She would be happy to have someone help her walk
around our kitchen island over and over, because it&#x02bc;s valuable practice for her and strengthens her little legs.
When she gets tired, she crawls away, knowing that she&#x02bc;ll feel better next time. And she is confident that with
more time and practice, she will be able to run and jump and skip, just like her big sister.

![Molly][a]

[a]: {static}/images/2012-10-17-molly.jpg

-----

So, I will take my one easy-to-understand word, &ldquo;butterfly,&rdquo; and be pleased with that little wobbly-eared
(if you will) success. I will keep up with my awkward practicing and maybe even let someone hold my hands along the way.
When I get tired, I will be satisfied with having done my homework and remember that I can hear at least a little bit
better than I did last week. And I know that with much more practice and stumbling over and over, I someday will be
listening and talking effortlessly.

Molly and I will be baby-stepping along the way together.
