title: El Deafo
urlname: el-deafo
date: 2015-02-11 10:47

Last week, the Newbery Medal winners for 2015 were announced. One of the Newbery Honor selections was [_El Deafo_][a]
by Cece Bell. Here&#x02bc;s what the Newbery committee had to say about this book:

[a]: https://www.amazon.com/dp/1419712179/

> In this insightful and humorous graphic novel memoir, Cece Bell portrays growing up with a giant hearing aid strapped
> to her chest. Themes of navigating a new school, sleepovers, finding a true friend and a first crush make this book
> universal in appeal. Bell shows that our differences are gifts that &ldquo;can be turned into something
> amazing.&rdquo;

So, naturally, this book sounded interesting to me. I was able to snag a copy on Monday and just finished it this
morning. And boy, did this book blow me away. As I read it, I kept thinking, &ldquo;Yes. Yes. And yes again. YES.&rdquo; 

It&#x02bc;s a graphic novel about a little girl who loses her hearing at 4 and learns to navigate the hearing world,
particularly elementary school, while wearing a bulky hearing aid strapped to her chest. The book is set in the early
1970s, long before behind-the-ear hearing aid technology was where it is today and long before cochlear implants were
even a viable option for the hearing impaired. She&#x02bc;s pretty much a contemporary of mine.

So many experiences of hers resonated with me. Wearing a hearing aid strapped to the chest. Killing it at lipreading.
Choosing to watch TV instead of playing with other kids because it&#x02bc;s too hard to keep up with the conversation.
Being terrible at PE and sports in general. Trying to fit in and always feeling different. Wishing for a friend that
doesn&#x02bc;t make a big deal about hearing aids. Using the hearing aid-microphone combo to spy on the teacher in the
bathroom. All of these could be taken from my story.

I recommend this to anyone who would like to better understand what it _feels_ like to be a hearing impaired kid, with
all of the insecurity, brief moments of courage, and just the ever-present awareness of being different. This would also
be a good read for parents of hearing impaired children. I just wish I&#x02bc;d had this book to read when I was
younger. So, go read it and then if you like, tell me what you thought of it.
